# Transrate Evaluation and figures Generation

This program performs the transrate evaluation of several sorghum transcriptomes and generates a boxplot with the evaluation metrics.

## Directory Structure

The project directory has the following structure:
	
```bash
.
├── code
├── data
└── results
```

- The `code` directory contains the R script.
- The `data` directory contains a list of BUSCO files in `genotype_list`.
- The `results` directory is where the output image `transrate_plot.png and transrate_barplot_plot.png` will be saved.

## Requirements

- R version 4.3.0
- Packages required: dplyr, tidyr, ggplot2, viridis, wesanderson, jsonlite, ggrepel
- There is avaiable the busco_plots.yml file with specifications for a conda envirorment to run this

## Input

The input files required for this program are:

- `genotype_list`: A list of BUSCO files in the following format: `genotype_busco.json`. These files should be in csv format, as generated by the transrate program.

## Output

The program generates the following output:

- `transrate_plot.png`: A boxplot displaying the evaluation metrics of the sorghum transcriptomes.
- `transrate_barplot_plot.png`: grouped barplot comparing number of total sequences per-transcriptomes vs CRBB hits vs ORFs

## Usage

1. Place transrate files (`genotype_tr.csv`) in the `data` directory.
2. Run the R script from the `code` directory.
3. The program will read the list of transrate files from `genotype_list` and will make the plots.

## Example

Here is an example command to run the program:

```bash
Rscript transrate_plot.r
```
