# BUSCO Evaluation and Boxplot Generation

This program performs the BUSCO evaluation of several sorghum transcriptomes and generates a boxplot with the evaluation metrics.

## Directory Structure

The project directory has the following structure:
	
```bash
.
├── code
├── data
└── results
```

- The `code` directory contains the R script.
- The `data` directory contains a list of BUSCO files in `busco_files.txt`.
- The `results` directory is where the output image `busco_plot.png` will be saved.

## Requirements

- R version 4.3.0
- Packages required: dplyr, tidyr, ggplot2, viridis, wesanderson, jsonlite, ggrepel
- There is avaiable the busco_plots.yml file with specifications for a conda envirorment to run this

## Input

The input files required for this program are:

- `busco_files.txt`: A list of BUSCO files in the following format: `genotype_busco.json`. These files should be in JSON format, as generated by the BUSCO program.

## Output

The program generates the following output:

- `busco_plot.png`: A boxplot displaying the evaluation metrics of the sorghum transcriptomes.

## Usage

1. Place the list of BUSCO files (`genotype_busco.json`) in the `data` directory.
2. Run the R script from the `code` directory.
3. The program will read the list of BUSCO files from `busco_files.txt` and perform the BUSCO evaluation.
4. The boxplot with the evaluation metrics will be saved as `busco_plot.png` in the `results` directory.

## Example

Here is an example command to run the program:

```bash
Rscript ./busco_plot.r
```
